Luke:
A SPECIAL REPORT TO THE GREEKS: WHO IS JESUS CHRIST? HE IS THE PERFECT MAN.
This report was prepared by Luke the historian. In it the parables of Christ are emphasized.
Luke is the most lengthy Gospel account and the longest New Testament book. 

Who? Luke. He was a gentile physician (Col. 4:14) who served as Paul’s faithful traveling companion (2 Tim. 4:11).
 the only Gentile biblical writer
the most educated

3. When and where?
a. Luke: 59 A.D., from Rome
b. Acts: 60 A.D., from Rome

5. To whom? (Specifically, both books were written to Theophilus.
a. Luke: To the Greeks.
b. Acts: To the early church believers.

Luke emphasizes the prayer life of Jesus.
Both women and children are prominent in his book.
more to say about angels
to call Jesus Savior

It has been observed that as Mark wrote his gospel under Peter’s influence, Luke penned his under Paul’s influence

• Matthew presents Jesus as a king and emphasizes His sermons.
• Mark presents Jesus as a servant and emphasizes His miracles.
• Luke presents Jesus as the perfect man and emphasizes His parables.
• John presents Jesus as the mighty God and emphasizes His doctrine.

ascension during the rule of Pontius Pilate and the tetrarchs Antipas and Philip

“most excellent” with the name further indicates an individual, and supports the idea that he was a Roman official or at least of high position and wealth. He was possibly Luke’s patron, responsible for seeing that the writings were copied and distributed. Such a dedication to the publisher was common at that time.

Luke’s characteristic themes include: (1) universality, recognition of Gentiles as well as Jews in God’s plan (see, e.g., 2:30–32 and notes on 2:31; 3:6); (2) emphasis on prayer, especially Jesus’ praying before important occasions (see note on 3:21); (3) joy at the announcement of the gospel or “good news” (see note on 1:14); (4) special concern for the role of women (see, e.g., 8:1–3 and notes); (5) special interest in the poor (some of the rich were included among Jesus’ followers, but he seemed closest to the poor; see note on 12:33); (6) concern for sinners (Jesus was a friend to those deep in sin); (7) stress on the family circle (Jesus’ activity included men, women and children, with the setting frequently in the home); (8) repeated use of the Messianic title “Son of Man” (used 25 times; see 19:10; Da 7:13 and notes); (9) emphasis on the Holy Spirit (see note on 4:1); (10) inclusion of more parables than any other Gospel (see chart, p. 2130); (11) emphasis on praising God (see 1:64; 24:53 and notes).


